Upgradability fixes (#967)
cosmos/ibc: spec/core/ics-004-channel-and-packet-semantics/UPGRADES.md

  TRYOPEN,
  OPEN,
  INITUPGRADE,

>   BLOCKUPGRADE,

Reviewer: In general I like the `BLOCK` state naming, but I could see it being mildly confusing (block upgrade, sounds like you are halting the upgrade, which is partially true). Just curious if there's any alternatives we should consider?

Reviewer 2: Do we need to change this enum at all? I feel like it could remain as TRYUPGRADE (consistent with other handshakes) but the spec can outline that being in this state blocks new packets.

Reviewer: Semantically the upgrade steps are different then the opening handshake. It's no longer 4 steps, it is either 5 or 6:
chainA, chainB
init
block, block
open, open

or 
init, init
block, block
open, open

It is required both sides enter into the block state, whereas in the opening handshake you can skip over try (init -> open)

Reviewer 3: is this still the latest version? Or are we removing the BLOCKUPGRADE state?

Author: No, we realized the above had an issue. I've added two new states to the ChannelState enum: `TRYUPGRADE` and `ACKUPGRADE`.

And then a separate `FLUSHSTATUS`. Please implement only the ChannelState enum changes for now.

We will deal with FLUSHSTATUS in a future PR

  counterpartyChannelIdentifier: Identifier
  connectionHops: [Identifier]
  version: string

>   upgradeSequence: uint64

Reviewer: This should be updated outside of the upgrades spec as well?

Author: Will do once this doc stabilizes

  counterpartyChannelIdentifier: Identifier
  connectionHops: [Identifier]
  version: string
  upgradeSequence: uint64
  flushStatus: FlushStatus
}
```

- `state`: The state is specified by the handshake steps of the upgrade protocol and will be mutated in place during the handshake.
- `upgradeSequence`: The upgrade sequence will be incremented and agreed upon during the upgrade handshake and will be mutated in place.

```typescript
enum FlushStatus {
    NOTINFLUSH
    FLUSHING
    FLUSHCOMPLETE
}
```

FlushStatus will be in `NOTINFLUSH` state when the channel is not in an upgrade handshake. It will be in `FLUSHING` mode when the channel end is flushing in-flight packets. The FlushStatus will change to `FLUSHCOMPLETE` once there are no in-flight packets left and the channelEnd is ready to move to OPEN.

> All other parameters will remain the same during the upgrade handshake until the upgrade handshake completes. When the channel is reset to `OPEN` on a successful upgrade handshake, the fields on the channel end will be switched over to the `UpgradeFields` specified in the upgrade.

Author: Yea wasn't sure exactly how we wanted to handle this. I created 3 states: 

FLUSHING: flushing (during handshake)
FLUSHCOMPLETE: flushing complete (during handshake)
NOTINFLUSH: state when we are not in upgrade handshake

This NOTINFLUSH state is the default enum (0 in the case of golang). I thought it was weird to call it `UNINITIALIZED` since it will be a state we return to after a complete upgrade handshake.

I could also have done 2 states:

`FLUSHED`
`FLUSHING`

Then while packets are processing during normal channel execution, the flush state will be `FLUSHED`; it will only be FLUSHING while we are paused on upgrade handshake to flush packets.

However, I thought this might be confusing so I opted against it.

cc: @colin-axner

> All other parameters will remain the same during the upgrade handshake until the upgrade handshake completes. When the channel is reset to `OPEN` on a successful upgrade handshake, the fields on the channel end will be switched over to the `UpgradeFields` specified in the upgrade.

Author: Open to changing with consensus. cc: @colin-axner

> All other parameters will remain the same during the upgrade handshake until the upgrade handshake completes. When the channel is reset to `OPEN` on a successful upgrade handshake, the fields on the channel end will be switched over to the `UpgradeFields` specified in the upgrade.

Reviewer: I actually like the 3 enums states @AdityaSripal proposed here. To me, it makes sense that `FLUSHCOMPLETE` is a very specific state, it tells the caller that the channel has no inflight packets, while `NOTINFLUSH` or `NOTFLUSHING` just means it isn't blocking on flushing in-flight packets. 

What's the benefit to reducing the number of states?

> All other parameters will remain the same during the upgrade handshake until the upgrade handshake completes. When the channel is reset to `OPEN` on a successful upgrade handshake, the fields on the channel end will be switched over to the `UpgradeFields` specified in the upgrade.

Reviewer 4: Was discussing with @colin-axner this morning and I had suggested also using a `flushing` boolean value. Either works I guess, I feel like I'd lean slightly towards the boolean.

> All other parameters will remain the same during the upgrade handshake until the upgrade handshake completes. When the channel is reset to `OPEN` on a successful upgrade handshake, the fields on the channel end will be switched over to the `UpgradeFields` specified in the upgrade.

Author: Let's discuss this synchronously

> All other parameters will remain the same during the upgrade handshake until the upgrade handshake completes. When the channel is reset to `OPEN` on a successful upgrade handshake, the fields on the channel end will be switched over to the `UpgradeFields` specified in the upgrade.

Reviewer 5: ah, the boolean vs enum battle appears once again

#### `UpgradeFields`

```typescript
interface UpgradeFields {
    version: string
    ordering: ChannelOrder
    connectionHops: [Identifier]
}
```

MAY BE MODIFIED:
- `version`: The version MAY be modified by the upgrade protocol. The same version negotiation that happens in the initial channel handshake can be employed for the upgrade handshake.

> - `ordering`: The ordering MAY be modified by the upgrade protocol.

Author: Correct, the ordering must still be in the supported set of the underlying connection

> At least one of the `timeoutHeight` or `timeoutTimestamp` MUST be non-zero.

Author: This already exists on line 102, hidden since its not in diffs

#### `Upgrade`

The upgrade type will represent a particular upgrade attempt on a channel end.

```typescript
interface Upgrade {
    fields: UpgradeFields
    timeout: UpgradeTimeout
    lastPacketSent: uint64
}
```

> The upgrade contains the proposed upgrade for the channel end on the executing chain, the timeout for the upgrade attempt, and the last packet send sequence for the channel. The `lastPacketSent` allows the counterparty to know which packets need to be flushed before the channel can reopen with the newly negotiated parameters.

Reviewer 6: Could you elaborate a bit more how `lastPacketSent` should be used in the counterparty? I am wondering now if this is needed, since a chain can take care of flushing all the packets that it has sent, but doesn't need to worry about the packets sent by the counterparty. If the chain doesn't allow sending new packets, it should not be possible for the counterparty to receive packets with a sequence higher than `lastPacketSent`, right?

### Store Paths

#### Upgrade Channel Path

> The chain must store the proposed upgrade until the upgrade handshake successfully. This must be stored in the publice store. It may be deleted once the upgrade is successful.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The chain must store the proposed upgrade upon initiating an upgrade. The proposed upgrade must be stored in the public store. It may be deleted once the upgrade is successful or has been aborted.
```

```typescript
function channelUpgradePath(portIdentifier: Identifier, channelIdentifier: Identifier): Path {
    return "channelUpgrades/upgrades/ports/{portIdentifier}/channels/{channelIdentifier}"
 }
```

> The upgrade path has an associated verification membership added to the connection interface so that a counterparty may verify that chain has stored the provided counterparty upgrade.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The upgrade path has an associated verification of membership method added to the connection interface so that a counterparty may verify that chain has stored the provided counterparty upgrade.
```
any wording is fine, but "verification membership" didn't read well to me

```typescript
function channelUpgradePath(portIdentifier: Identifier, channelIdentifier: Identifier): Path {
    return "channelUpgrades/upgrades/ports/{portIdentifier}/channels/{channelIdentifier}"
 }
```

The upgrade path has an associated verification of membership method added to the connection interface so that a counterparty may verify that chain has stored the provided counterparty upgrade.

```typescript
// Connection VerifyChannelUpgrade method
function verifyChannelUpgrade(
    connection: ConnectionEnd,
    height: Height,
    proof: CommitmentProof,
    counterpartyPortIdentifier: Identifier,
    counterpartyChannelIdentifier: Identifier,
    upgrade: Upgrade
) {
    clientState = queryClientState(connection.clientIdentifier)
    path = applyPrefix(connection.counterpartyPrefix, channelUpgradePath(counterpartyPortIdentifier, counterpartyChannelIdentifier))
    return verifyMembership(clientState, height, 0, 0, proof, path, upgrade)
}
```

#### CounterpartyLastPacketSequence Path

> The chain must store the counterparty's last packet sequence on `startFlushUpgradeHandshake`. This will be stored in the `counterpartyLastPacketSequence` path on the private store/

Author: Does not need to be provable to counterparty. This is a moot point for current SDK since all storage is provable, but they are apparently changing this, in which case we can move any storage set in private store in the specs to this non-provable store in the sdk

```typescript

> function channelCounterpartyLastPacketSequencePath(portIdentifier: Identifier, channelIdentifier: ChannelIdentifier): Path {

Reviewer: Just noting in ibc-go the current usage is [`latest`](https://github.com/cosmos/ibc-go/blob/04-channel-upgrades/proto/ibc/core/channel/v1/upgrade.proto#L17). I'm happy with whatever but we should probably be consistent

> function channelCounterpartyLastPacketSequencePath(portIdentifier: Identifier, channelIdentifier: ChannelIdentifier): Path {

Reviewer: previous discussion: https://github.com/cosmos/ibc-go/pull/3451#discussion_r1166434611

> function channelCounterpartyLastPacketSequencePath(portIdentifier: Identifier, channelIdentifier: ChannelIdentifier): Path {

Reviewer 2: I think I now also prefer `last` here after thinking some more about it.

}
```

## Sub-Protocols

The channel upgrade process consists of the following sub-protocols: `InitUpgradeHandshake`, `StartFlushUpgradeHandshake`, `OpenUpgradeHandshake`, `CancelChannelUpgrade`, and `TimeoutChannelUpgrade`. In the case where both chains approve of the proposed upgrade, the upgrade handshake protocol should complete successfully and the `ChannelEnd` should upgrade to the new parameters in OPEN state.

### Utility Functions

> `initUpgradeChannelHandshake` is a subprotocol that will initialize the channel end for the upgrade handshake. It will verify the upgrade parameters and set the channel state to INITUPGRADE and block sendpackets. During this time; `receivePacket`, `acknowledgePacket` and `timeoutPacket` will still be allowed and processed according to the original channel parameters. The new proposed upgrade will be stored in the public store for counterparty verification.

Reviewer 4: wording nits/suggestions... maybe we should use validate instead of verify for the initial proposed upgrade params?

```suggestion
`initUpgradeChannelHandshake` is a sub-protocol that will initialize the channel end for the upgrade handshake. It will validate the upgrade parameters and set the channel state to INITUPGRADE, blocking `sendPacket` from processing outbound packets on the channel end. During this time; `receivePacket`, `acknowledgePacket` and `timeoutPacket` will still be allowed and processed according to the original channel parameters. The new proposed upgrade will be stored in the provable store for counterparty verification.
```

```typescript
function initUpgradeChannelHandshake(
    portIdentifier: Identifier,
    channelIdentifier: Identifier,
    proposedFields: UpgradeFields,
    timeout: UpgradeTimeout
): uint64 {
    // current channel must be OPEN
    currentChannel = provableStore.get(channelPath(portIdentifier, channelIdentifier))
    abortTransactionUnless(channel.state == OPEN)

    // new channel version must be nonempty
    abortTransactionUnless(proposedFields.Version != "")

    // proposedConnection must exist and be in OPEN state for 
    // channel upgrade to be accepted
    proposedConnection = provableStore.Get(connectionPath(proposedFields.connectionHops[0])
    abortTransactionUnless(proposedConnection != null && proposedConnection.state == OPEN)

    // either timeout height or timestamp must be non-zero
    abortTransactionUnless(timeout.timeoutHeight != 0 || timeout.timeoutTimestamp != 0)

    // get last packet sent on channel and set it in the upgrade struct
    // last packet sent is the nextSequenceSend on the channel minus 1

>     lastPacketSendSequence = publicStore.get(nextSequenceSendPath(portIdentifier, channelIdentifier)) - 1

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    lastPacketSendSequence = provableStore.get(nextSequenceSendPath(portIdentifier, channelIdentifier)) - 1
```

    upgrade = Upgrade{
        fields: proposedFields,
        timeout: timeout,
        lastPacketSent: lastPacketSendSequence,
    }

    // store upgrade in public store for counterparty proof verification

>     publicStore.set(channelUpgradePath(portIdentifier, channelIdentifier), upgrade)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    provableStore.set(channelUpgradePath(portIdentifier, channelIdentifier), upgrade)
```

    currentChannel.sequence = currentChannel.sequence + 1
    currentChannel.state = INITUPGRADE

>     publicStore.set(channelPath(portIdentifier, channelIdentifier), channel)

Reviewer 4: shouldn't these all be "provableStore"? 

```suggestion
    provableStore.set(channelPath(portIdentifier, channelIdentifier), channel)
```

```typescript
function startFlushUpgradeHandshake(
    portIdentifier: Identifier,
    channelIdentifier: Identifier,
    proposedUpgradeFields: UpgradeFields,
    counterpartyChannel: ChannelEnd,
    counterpartyUpgrade: Upgrade,
    channelState: ChannelState,
    proofChannel: CommitmentProof,
    proofUpgrade: CommitmentProof,
    proofHeight: Height
) {
    abortTransactionUnless(channelState == TRYUPGRADE || channelState == ACKUPGRADE)

    // get underlying connection for proof verification
    connection = getConnection(currentChannel.connectionIdentifier)

>     counterpartyHops = getCounterpartyHops(connection)

Reviewer 3: why do we need this? we are receiving the `counterpartyChannel` already as a param

```typescript
function startFlushUpgradeHandshake(
    portIdentifier: Identifier,
    channelIdentifier: Identifier,
    proposedUpgradeFields: UpgradeFields,
    counterpartyChannel: ChannelEnd,
    counterpartyUpgrade: Upgrade,
    channelState: ChannelState,
    proofChannel: CommitmentProof,
    proofUpgrade: CommitmentProof,
    proofHeight: Height
) {
    abortTransactionUnless(channelState == TRYUPGRADE || channelState == ACKUPGRADE)

    // current channel must be OPEN
    currentChannel = provableStore.get(channelPath(portIdentifier, channelIdentifier))

>     abortTransactionUnless(channel.state == OPEN)

Reviewer 4: In `chanUpgradeAck` on line 574 we lookup the current channel and do the following:

```
currentChannel = provableStore.get(channelPath(portIdentifier, channelIdentifier))
abortTransactionUnless(currentChannel.state == INITUPGRADE || currentChannel.state == TRYUPGRADE)
```

And then we call `startFlushUpgradeHandshake` which makes this assertion.

    // verify proofs of counterparty state
    abortTransactionUnless(verifyChannelState(connection, proofHeight, proofChannel, currentChannel.counterpartyPortIdentifier, currentChannel.counterpartyChannelIdentifier, counterpartyChannel))
    abortTransactionUnless(verifyChannelUpgrade(connection, proofHeight, proofUpgrade, currentChannel.counterpartyPortIdentifier, currentChannel.counterpartyChannelIdentifier, counterpartyUpgrade))

    // proposed ordering must be the same as the counterparty proposed ordering
    if proposedUpgradeFields.ordering != counterpartyUpgradeFields.ordering {
        restoreChannel(portIdentifier, channelIdentifier)
    }

    // connectionHops can change in a channelUpgrade, however both sides must still be each other's counterparty.
    proposedConnection = provableStore.get(connectionPath(proposedUpgradeFields.connectionHops[0])
    if (proposedConnection == null || proposedConnection.state != OPEN) {
        restoreChannel(portIdentifier, channelIdentifier)
    }
    if (counterpartyUpgrade.fields.connectionHops[0] != proposedConnection.counterpartyConnectionIdentifier) {
        restoreChannel(portIdentifier, channelIdentifier)

>     }

Reviewer: We should add this check?
```
if (channel.UpgradeSequence != counterpartyChannel.UpgradeSequence) {
    restoreChannel(portIdentifier, channelIdentifier)
}
```

that is, the general gist of this function:
```
    // verify fields
    
    // return error receipts for any upgrade fields that are incompatible
    
    // update self state to start flushing
```

    if upgrade.timeout != counterpartyUpgrade.timeout {
        restoreChannel(portIdentifier, channelIdentifier)
    }

    // proposed ordering must be the same as the counterparty proposed ordering
    if proposedUpgradeFields.ordering != counterpartyUpgradeFields.ordering {
        restoreChannel(portIdentifier, channelIdentifier)
    }

    // connectionHops can change in a channelUpgrade, however both sides must still be each other's counterparty.
    proposedConnection = provableStore.get(connectionPath(proposedUpgradeFields.connectionHops[0])
    if (proposedConnection == null || proposedConnection.state != OPEN) {
        restoreChannel(portIdentifier, channelIdentifier)
    }
    if (counterpartyUpgrade.fields.connectionHops[0] != proposedConnection.counterpartyConnectionIdentifier) {
        restoreChannel(portIdentifier, channelIdentifier)
    }

    currentChannel.state = desiredChannelState
    currentChannel.flushState = FLUSHING

    // if there are no in-flight packets on our end, we can automatically go to FLUSHCOMPLETE
    if pendingInflightPackets(portIdentifier, channelIdentifier) == nil {
        currentChannel.flushState = FLUSHCOMPLETE
    }

>     publicStore.set(channelPath(portIdentifier, channelIdentifier), channel)

Reviewer 5: A suggestion on a suggestion:

```suggestion
    provableStore.set(channelPath(portIdentifier, channelIdentifier), currentChannel)
```

there's a couple more references to `publicStore` in other places.

    timeout = counterpartyUpgrade.timeout
    abortTransactionUnless(timeout.timeoutHeight != 0 || timeout.timeoutTimestamp != 0)
    // counterparty-specified timeout must not have exceeded
    abortTransactionUnless(
        (currentHeight() > timeout.timeoutHeight && timeout.timeoutHeight != 0) ||
        (currentTimestamp() > timeout.timeoutTimestamp && timeout.timeoutTimestamp != 0)
    )

    // if OPEN, then initialize handshake with upgradeFields
    // otherwise, assert that the upgrade fields are the same for crossing-hellos case
    if currentChannel.state == OPEN {
        // if the counterparty sequence is greater than the current sequence, we fast forward to the counterparty sequence
        // so that both channel ends are using the same sequence for the current upgrade
        // initUpgradeChannelHandshake will increment the sequence so after that call
        // both sides will have the same upgradeSequence
        if counterpartyUpgradeSequence > channel.upgradeSequence {
            channel.upgradeSequence = counterpartyUpgradeSequence - 1
        }

>         initUpgradeChannelHandshake(portIdentifier, channelIdentifier, upgradeFields, counterpartyUpgrade.timeout)

Reviewer 3: don't we need to write the upgrade init in order for anything else to happen other than the channel upgrade being set? if we aren't writing the channel state, then we need to manually set or we are only incrementing the sequence, which seems like then going thru the whole handshake is overkill?

see comment here: https://github.com/cosmos/ibc-go/pull/3478/files#r1175181578

Author: Both INIT and TRY handlers will use the `initUpgradeHandshake` utility function to execute common logic if the message is the first message the executing chain has seen for the given upgrade attempt.

See utility function here: https://github.com/cosmos/ibc/pull/967/files#diff-69d7c4ac1d4cdeeabcc757d3a34e85945ebc5613a034a52ebd0769cd8a0fc560R214

function chanUpgradeTry(
    portIdentifier: Identifier,
    channelIdentifier: Identifier,
    counterpartyUpgrade: Upgrade,
    counterpartyUpgradeSequence: uint64,
    proposedConnectionHops: [Identifier],
    proofChannel: CommitmentProof,
    proofUpgrade: CommitmentProof,
    proofHeight: Height
) {
    // current channel must be OPEN or INITUPGRADE (crossing hellos)
    currentChannel = provableStore.get(channelPath(portIdentifier, channelIdentifier))
    abortTransactionUnless(currentChannel.state == OPEN || currentChannel.state == INITUPGRADE)

    // create upgrade fields for this chain from counterparty upgrade and relayer-provided information
    // version may be mutated by application callback
    upgradeFields = Upgrade{
        ordering: counterpartyUpgrade.fields.ordering,

>         connectionHops: proposedConnectionHops,

Author: The connectionHops are not the same on both sides since each references the connection with their own local identifier

    // counterparty-specified timeout must not have exceeded
    abortTransactionUnless(
        (currentHeight() > timeout.timeoutHeight && timeout.timeoutHeight != 0) ||
        (currentTimestamp() > timeout.timeoutTimestamp && timeout.timeoutTimestamp != 0)
    )

    // if OPEN, then initialize handshake with upgradeFields
    // otherwise, assert that the upgrade fields are the same for crossing-hellos case
    if currentChannel.state == OPEN {
        // if the counterparty sequence is greater than the current sequence, we fast forward to the counterparty sequence
        // so that both channel ends are using the same sequence for the current upgrade
        // initUpgradeChannelHandshake will increment the sequence so after that call
        // both sides will have the same upgradeSequence
        if counterpartyUpgradeSequence > channel.upgradeSequence {
            channel.upgradeSequence = counterpartyUpgradeSequence - 1
        }

        initUpgradeChannelHandshake(portIdentifier, channelIdentifier, upgradeFields, counterpartyUpgrade.timeout)
    } else if currentChannel.state == INITUPGRADE {

>         existingUpgrade = publicStore.get(channelUpgradePath)

Reviewer 3: do we expect the upgrade sequence to be fastforwarded in this case as well if the counterparty upgrade sequence is higher in crossing hellos?

        }

        initUpgradeChannelHandshake(portIdentifier, channelIdentifier, upgradeFields, counterpartyUpgrade.timeout)
    } else if currentChannel.state == INITUPGRADE {
        existingUpgrade = publicStore.get(channelUpgradePath)
        abortTransactionUnless(existingUpgrade.fields == upgradeFields)
    }

    // get counterpartyHops for given connection
    connection = getConnection(currentChannel.connectionIdentifier)
    counterpartyHops = getCounterpartyHops(connection)

    // construct counterpartyChannel from existing information and provided
    // counterpartyUpgradeSequence
    counterpartyChannel = ChannelEnd{
        state: INITUPGRADE,
        ordering: currentChannel.ordering,
        counterpartyPortIdentifier: portIdentifier,
        counterpartyChannelIdentifier: channelIdentifier,
        connectionHops: counterpartyHops,
        version: currentChannel.version,
        sequence: counterpartyUpgradeSequence,
    }

    // call startFlushUpgrade handshake to move channel from INITUPGRADE to TRYUPGRADE and start flushing
    // upgrade is blocked on this channelEnd from progressing until flush completes on both ends

>     startFlushUpgradeHandshake(portIdentifier, channelIdentifier, upgradeFields, counterpartyChannel, counterpartyUpgrade, TRYUPGRADE, proofChannel, proofUpgrade, proofHeight)

Reviewer 3: at this point in in the code when `startFlushUpgradeHandshake` is called, in the non-crossing hellos scenario our own `channel.State` would still be in `UPGRADEINIT`. wouldn't this mean that the `startFlush...` subprotocol would fail on [its first check? ](https://github.com/cosmos/ibc/pull/967/files#diff-69d7c4ac1d4cdeeabcc757d3a34e85945ebc5613a034a52ebd0769cd8a0fc560R285)

Reviewer 3: ah, nevermind, it's the passed in `ChannelState` param and not our own channel state that is being checked. maybe a clearer naming, something like `NextChannelState`

Reviewer 3: that sounds good to me!

    // call modules onChanUpgradeInit callback
    module = lookupModule(portIdentifier)
    version, err = module.onChanUpgradeInit(
        portIdentifier,
        channelIdentifier,
        proposedUpgrade.fields.ordering,
        proposedUpgrade.fields.connectionHops,
        upgradeSequence,
        proposedUpgrade.fields.version
    )
    // abort transaction if callback returned error
    abortTransactionUnless(err != nil)

    // replace channel version with the version returned by application
    // in case it was modified
    currentChannel = provableStore.get(channelPath(portIdentifier, channelIdentifier))
    currentChannel.version = version

>     provableStore.set(channelPath(portIdentifier, channelIdentifier), currentChannel)

Reviewer: I believe you should setting the upgrade, not the channel

    // this will restore the channel on the executing chain and allow counterparty to use the ChannelUpgradeCancelMsg to restore their channel.
    timeout = counterpartyUpgrade.timeout
    abortTransactionUnless(timeout.timeoutHeight != 0 || timeout.timeoutTimestamp != 0)
    // counterparty-specified timeout must not have exceeded
    abortTransactionUnless(
        (currentHeight() > timeout.timeoutHeight && timeout.timeoutHeight != 0) ||
        (currentTimestamp() > timeout.timeoutTimestamp && timeout.timeoutTimestamp != 0)
    )

    // if OPEN, then initialize handshake with upgradeFields
    // otherwise, assert that the upgrade fields are the same for crossing-hellos case
    if currentChannel.state == OPEN {
        // if the counterparty sequence is greater than the current sequence, we fast forward to the counterparty sequence
        // so that both channel ends are using the same sequence for the current upgrade
        // initUpgradeChannelHandshake will increment the sequence so after that call
        // both sides will have the same upgradeSequence
        if counterpartyUpgradeSequence > channel.upgradeSequence {

>             channel.upgradeSequence = counterpartyUpgradeSequence - 1

Reviewer 5: should be `currentChannel` here and on line 522, right?

function chanUpgradeAck(
    portIdentifier: Identifier,
    channelIdentifier: Identifier,
    counterpartyUpgrade: Upgrade,
    proofChannel: CommitmentProof,
    proofUpgrade: CommitmentProof,
    proofHeight: Height
) {
    // current channel is in INITUPGRADE or TRYUPGRADE (crossing hellos)
    currentChannel = provableStore.get(channelPath(portIdentifier, channelIdentifier))
    abortTransactionUnless(currentChannel.state == INITUPGRADE || currentChannel.state == TRYUPGRADE)

    connection = getConnection(currentChannel.connectionIdentifier)
    counterpartyHops = getCounterpartyHops(connection)

    // construct counterpartyChannel from existing information and provided
    // counterpartyUpgradeSequence
    counterpartyChannel = ChannelEnd{
        state: TRYUPGRADE,
        ordering: currentChannel.ordering,
        counterpartyPortIdentifier: portIdentifier,
        counterpartyChannelIdentifier: channelIdentifier,
        connectionHops: counterpartyHops,

>         version: currentChannel.version,

Reviewer 3: why is this using the current channel version? wouldnt this be incorrect on asymmetrical versions ie: interchain accounts?

    connection = getConnection(currentChannel.connectionIdentifier)
    counterpartyHops = getCounterpartyHops(connection)

    // construct counterpartyChannel from existing information and provided
    // counterpartyUpgradeSequence
    counterpartyChannel = ChannelEnd{
        state: TRYUPGRADE,
        ordering: currentChannel.ordering,
        counterpartyPortIdentifier: portIdentifier,
        counterpartyChannelIdentifier: channelIdentifier,
        connectionHops: counterpartyHops,
        version: currentChannel.version,
        sequence: counterpartyUpgradeSequence,
        flushState: counterpartyFlushStatus,
    }

    upgrade = provableStore.get(channelUpgradePath(portIdentifier, channelIdentifier))

    // in the crossing hellos case, the versions returned by both on TRY must be the same
    if currentChannel.state == TRYUPGRADE {
        if upgrade.fields.version != counterpartyUpgrade.fields.version {
            restoreChannel(portIdentifier, channelIdentifier)
        }
    }

    // prove counterparty and move our own state to ACKUPGRADE and start flushing
    // upgrade is blocked on this channelEnd from progressing until flush completes on both ends

>     startFlushUpgradeHandshake(portIdentifier, channelIdentifier, upgrade.fields, counterpartyChannel, counterpartyUpgrade, ACKUPGRADE, proofChannel, proofUpgrade, proofHeight)

Author: Doing this directly became very verbose in the spec and args list, so I keep as-is and simply verify the timeout in the flushing subprotocol.

I do remove the sequence however since we already know this information by this point

    startFlushUpgradeHandshake(portIdentifier, channelIdentifier, upgrade.fields, counterpartyChannel, counterpartyUpgrade, ACKUPGRADE, proofChannel, proofUpgrade, proofHeight)

    // call modules onChanUpgradeAck callback
    // module can error on counterparty version
    // ACK should not change state to the new parameters yet
    // as that will happen on the onChanUpgradeOpen callback
    module = lookupModule(portIdentifier)
    err = module.onChanUpgradeAck(
        portIdentifier,
        channelIdentifier,
        counterpartyUpgrade.version
    )
    // restore channel if callback returned error
    if err != nil {
        restoreChannel(portIdentifier, channelIdentifier)
        return
    }

    // if no error, agree on final version
    upgrade.version = counterpartyUpgrade.version
    provableStore.set(channelUpgradePath(portIdentifier, channelIdentifier), upgrade)

    // refresh channel
    currentChannel = provableStore.get(channelPath(portIdentifier, channelIdentifier))

    // if both sides have already flushed then open the upgrade handshake immediately
    if  currentChannel.state == FLUSHCOMPLETE && counterpartyFlushStatus == FLUSHCOMPLETE {

>         openChannelHandshake(portIdentifier, channelIdentifier)

Author: this is the openUpgradeHandshake subprotocol

        module.onChanUpgradeOpen(portIdentifier, channelIdentifier)
    }
}
```

```typescript

> function chanUpgradeOpen(

Reviewer 4: Is there good reason to stray from the `Confirm` naming convention? I find it a bit more natural, as open is kind of close to `Init` in some ways

Reviewer 3: I guess since the channel state is changing to `OPEN` if the in flight packets have been flushed, it might be confusing to have the function called `Confirm` when the end state will actually `OPEN`?

    portIdentifier: Identifier,
    channelIdentifier: Identifier,
    counterpartyChannelState: ChannelState,
    proofChannel: CommitmentProof,
    proofHeight: Height,
) {
    // if packet commitments are not empty then abort the transaction
    abortTransactionUnless(pendingInflightPackets(portIdentifier, channelIdentifier))

    // currentChannel must be in TRYUPGRADE or ACKUPGRADE and have completed flushing
    currentChannel = provableStore.get(channelPath(portIdentifier, channelIdentifier))
    abortTransactionUnless(currentChannel.state == TRYUPGRADE || currentChannel.state == ACKUPGRADE)

>     abortTransactionUnless(currentChannel.flushStatus == FLUSHCOMPLETE)

Reviewer 3: is there another way to set our `currentChannel.flushStatus` to `FLUSHCOMPLETE` besides this code snippet in `StartFlushingUpgradeHandshake`? 

```
    // if there are no in-flight packets on our end, we can automatically go to FLUSHCOMPLETE
    if pendingInflightPackets(portIdentifier, channelIdentifier) == nil {
        currentChannel.flushState = FLUSHCOMPLETE
    }
   ```

we call this in `Ack` and `Try` but we can't recall either of them once our channel state is in `UPGRADEACK`.

Author: This will be done in the packet handlers in a future spec PR. this pr is purely focused on upgrade handshake changes to scope the changes.

Reviewer 3: is it important in this spec that these handlers are at least mentioned? otherwise the logic for the onUpgradeOpen seems imcomplete.

function chanUpgradeAck(
    portIdentifier: Identifier,
    channelIdentifier: Identifier,
    counterpartyFlushStatus: FlushStatus,

>     counterpartyUpgrade: Upgrade,

Reviewer 5: is there any benefit to passing the FlushStatus separately here?

    proofChannel: CommitmentProof,
    proofUpgrade: CommitmentProof,
    proofHeight: Height
) {
    // current channel is in INITUPGRADE or TRYUPGRADE (crossing hellos)
    currentChannel = provableStore.get(channelPath(portIdentifier, channelIdentifier))
    abortTransactionUnless(currentChannel.state == INITUPGRADE || currentChannel.state == TRYUPGRADE)

    // counterparty flush status must be FLUSHING or FLUSHINGCOMPLETE
    abortTransactionUnless(counterpartyFlushStatus == FLUSHING || counterpartyFlushStatus == FLUSHCOMPLETE)

    connection = getConnection(currentChannel.connectionIdentifier)
    counterpartyHops = getCounterpartyHops(connection)

    // construct counterpartyChannel from existing information and provided
    // flushStatus
    counterpartyChannel = ChannelEnd{
        state: TRYUPGRADE,
        ordering: currentChannel.ordering,
        counterpartyPortIdentifier: portIdentifier,
        counterpartyChannelIdentifier: channelIdentifier,
        connectionHops: counterpartyHops,
        version: currentChannel.version,

>         sequence: channel.sequence,

Reviewer 5: what does channel refer to here?

    abortTransactionUnless(verifyChannelUpgradeError(connection, proofHeight, proofUpgradeError, currentChannel.counterpartyPortIdentifier, currentChannel.counterpartyChannelIdentifier, errorReceipt))

    // cancel upgrade
    // and restore original channel
    // delete unnecessary state
    currentChannel.state = OPEN
    currentChannel.flushStatus = NOTINFLUSH

>     provableStore.set(channelPath(portIdentifier, channelIdentifier), originalChannel)

Reviewer: should we fast forward our upgrade sequence upon canceling an upgrade if the error receipt is > our upgrade sequence?
